.TH VPSM 1 "OCTUBER 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
vpsm \- void\-packages sources management wrapper for xbps\-src.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBvpsm\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fISUBCOMMANDS\fP] [\fI<ARGS>\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBvpsm\fP was made specifically for Void Linux. Is a simple wrapper for \fBxbps\-src\fP commands that allows handling binary packages sources, query, smooth the workflow of the creation of new packages \- and a little more. Also used to substitute some commands from \fBxtools\fP(1) collection utilities.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-color=\fP\fI<yes|no|auto>\fP
  Enable/Disable colorized output (default: auto)

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  (same as: help).

.PP
\fB\-\-help\-pager\fP
  (same as: helppager).

.SH GIT SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
\fBadd\-changes, ac\fP \fI[file]\fP
  Add worked changes to the cloned repository \- more details
  \fBgit\-add\fP(1).

.PP
\fBadd\-remote\-repo, arr\fP \fI<remote-name> <url>\fP
  Add new remote repository to the cloned repository.

.PP
\fBcheckout\-branch, co\fP \fI<branch>\fP
  Switch branch.

.PP
\fBcommit\-changes, cc\fP
  Commits changes added \- the message will be something like "New
  package: my\-package\-name\-0.1\_1".

.PP
\fBcreate\-branch, cb\fP \fI<branch>\fP
  Create a new branch.

.PP
\fBdelete\-branch, delb\fP \fI<branch>\fP
  Delete a existing branch.

.PP
\fBpull, pp\fP \fI<remote> <branch>\fP
  Pull commit from \fB\fC<remote> <branch>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBpull\-request, pr\fP \fI[message]\fP
  Create a pull\-request \- [optional message].

.PP
\fBpush\-commit, pc\fP \fI<remote> <branch>\fP
  Push commits to \fB\fC<remote> <branch>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBupdate\-repo, upr\fP
  Pull commits from Void Linux's void\-packages repository.

.SH XBPS\-SRC SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
\fBbinbootstrap, bb\fP
  Install bootstrap packages from host repositories into \fB\fC<masterdir>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBbootstrap\-up, bu\fP
  Updates bootstrap packages.

.PP
\fBbuild\-environment\fP
  Configure environment to create binary packages.

.PP
\fBedit\-template, et\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Edit \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR template.

.PP
\fBinstall, i\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Build binary package for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR, all required dependencies and
  install.

.PP
\fBlint, li\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Scan XBPS \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR template for common mistakes.

.PP
\fBlist, l\fP
  Lists installed packages in \fB\fC<masterdir>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBpkg\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Only build binary package for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR and all required
  dependencies.

.PP
\fBpurge\-distfiles, pdistf\fP
  Removes all obsolete distfiles in \fB\fC<hostdir>/sources\fR\&.

.PP
\fBsearchbin, sb\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Search in \fB\fC<hostdir>/binpkgs\fR for package by \fB\fC<name>\fR \- use xbps\-query.

.PP
\fBsearchsrc, ss\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Search in \fB\fC<srcpkgs>\fR for package by \fB\fC<name>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBshow, sw\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Show information for the specified package.

.PP
\fBshow\-build\-deps, bdeps\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Show required build dependencies for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBshow\-deps, rdeps\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Show required run\-time dependencies for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBuninstall, un\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Uninstall and purge distfiles for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR\&.

.PP
\fBupdate\-bulk, upb\fP
  Rebuilds all packages in the system repositories that are outdated.

.PP
\fBupdate\-check, upc\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Check upstream site of \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR for new releases.

.PP
\fBupdate\-sys, ups\fP
  Rebuilds packages in system and updates them.

.PP
\fBxgsum\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Generate SHA256 for \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR template.

.PP
\fBxinstall, xi\fP \fI<pkgname>\fP
  Like xbps\-install \-S \fB\fC<pkgname>\fR, but take cwd repo and sudo/su into
  account.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBXBPS\_DISTDIR\fP
  The void\-packages repository directory path  passed to the \fBvpsm\fP
  command.

.SH BUGS
.PP
All bugs should be reported to 
\[la]https://github.com/sinetoami/vpsm\[ra]

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
\fB\fCSinésio Neto <sinetoami> <sinetoami@gmail.com>\fR

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBxtools\fP(1), \fBgit\-add\fP(1)

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
MIT License
